<html>
<body>
<h2> 7.	Tiles and Features </h2>
<ol start="7"><li>1.	Spatial Reference Systems<br><br>
	This  clause specifies allowable spatial reference systems (SRS)  that are coordinate reference systems (CRS) and their Well Known Text (WKT) definitions that SHALL be included in the gpkg_spatial_ref_sys table and referenced by the gpkg_contents, gpkg_tile_matrix_set and gpkg_geometry_columns tables srs_id column values that specify the SRS used by tile pyramid and vector feature user data tables.  The allowable CRSs are listed in Table 5 below.  CRS parameter values SHALL be those stated in Table 6 through Table 25 below.  Parameter values for CRS defined by EPSG are those specified by the EPSG Geodetic Parameter Registry when this document was published.  Parameter values for CRS specified by the U.S. National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) are those defined in Table 9, Table 11, Table 13, Table 16 and Table 17 below.<br>  
	Applications that can read standard GeoPackages can read the specified SRS definitions in the gpkg_spatial_ref_sys table.  
<br><br>
	
<b><i>NSG Req 3: The Allowed CRSs listed explicitly or specified as templates with parameter value substitutions in Table 5 SHALL be the only CRSs used by tile pyramid and vector feature user data tables containing NSG data in a GeoPackage.</i></b>
<p>Note:  The integer codes assigned to NGA CRSs in this document meet two conditions to avoid confusion with CRS codes used for data imported from external sources and converted to a CRS defined by NGA.  First, they are unique among all srs_id values referenced by the base GeoPackage specification and those defined in this document.  Second, they do not duplicate the codes for any CRSs registered in http://www.epsg-registry.org, although some of them do duplicate codes for coordinate operations and other items in that registry, where codes are only unique within a type.  It is recommended that these conditions continue to be met if these codes are changed by the appropriate NGA authority.</p>
