<b>1	Introduction</b>
<p><b><i>1.1	Spatiotemporal Data</i></b><br><br>
Spatiotemporal data is critical to missions throughout the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) and Intelligence Community (IC). Spatiotemporal data includes the specification of the spatial, temporal, and accompanying quality assessment, characteristics of entities (e.g., equipment, combatants and targets).<br><br>
Spatial information includes position, extent (shape), size, orientation, and rates of change in these characteristics. Unambiguous expression of the values of these characteristics requires the identification of a robust coordinate reference system, such as those associated with the World Geodetic System 1984 (WGS 84), and the ability to specify the values of such characteristics with respect to that coordinate reference system. Spatial information also includes identifiers based on geographic place-names, physical addresses, and other systems in which a spatial reference in the form of a label or code is used to identifiy a location that may then be more rigorously tied to a position.<br><br>
Temporal information includes position (instant), extent (duration), and periodic recurrence characteristics. Unambiguous expression of the values of these characteristics requires the identification of a robust temporal reference system, such as Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), and the ability to specify the values of such characteristics with respect to that temporal reference system. <br><br>
Quality assessment information includes the precision of data values as well as quantitative and qualitative estimates of the accuracy and/or uncertainty of spatial and temporal characteristics.<br><br>
Spatiotemporal data in the DoD/IC may be generated by a variety of mechanisms. These include by being: sensed remotely, predicted by computational algorithms, or directly determined and reported using on-board equipment containing a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver and Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU). For convenience this specification adopts the terminology of the (latter) instrumentation community by referring to spatiotemporal data as <b>Time-Space-Position Information (TSPI)</b>.<br><br>
Unambiguous specification of TSPI is central to Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT) and the functioning of the National System for Geospatial Intelligence (NSG). The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) is the Functional Manager of the NSG, and as such is a key stakeholder in ensuring that TSPI is well-specified – particularly as regards precise spatiotemporal positioning for the purposes of targeting.<br><br>
It is the case that not all communications of TSPI data, today, include explicit characterization of their spatiotemporal reference system(s). Even when they do, it is sometimes the case that participants to the TSPI exchange do not completely understand how that spatiotemporal reference system relates to the “real Earth” (e.g., the relationship between Military Grid Reference System (MGRS) “flat” coordinates and geodetic coordinates on a “curved Earth”). As the promulgating Agency for MGRS and WGS 84, NGA has a vested interest in ensuring (to the maximum extent possible) that these standards are correctly adopted and supported in DoD/IC systems across the NSG.</p><br><br>
<p><b>1.2	TSPI Terminology</b><br><br>
The NSG includes many communities of practice, each having developed and employed “local variations” in TSPI-related terminology. These variations can be an impediment to clear and unambiguous communication of TSPI. Athough the purpose of this TSPI standard is to provide consistent support to all of these communities, it specifically emphasizes two:
<ul>
<li>	Warfighters, intelligence analysts, and their DoD/IC software applications; and
<li>	Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) software based on Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 19100-series standards – that warfighters and intelligence analysts may employ in their applications.</ul>
In consequence , where there are terminological differences it employs a consistent set of terminology that maximally aligns with the expectations and practices of these two communities wherever possible. In particular, as regards terminology this specification conforms to:
<ul><li>	CJCSI 3900.01C, Position (Point and Area) Reference Procedures, 30 June 2007, adopting and extending from its terminology wherever appropriate; and
<li>	ISO 19111:2007, Geographic information – Spatial referencing by coordinates, which specifies a conceptual schema and associated terminology for spatial references that is used throughout OGC and ISO 19100-series standards.</ul>
Other terminological choices are identified as aliases, where appropriate, and footnoted accordingly.</p><br><br>
<p><b><i>1.3	TSPI Exchange</i></b><br><br>
TSPI, especially as generated at high rates by onboard instrumentation, may be communicated using bit-oriented protocols (e.g., Link-16 or Variable Message Format (VMF)) intended only for machine-to-machine interactions (and for use in limited bandwidth environments). However, in many cases TSPI is exchanged at low rates using character-oriented protocols such as U.S. Message Text Format (USMTF) or Variable Message Format – Extensible Markup Language (VMF-XML). In these latter cases the formatting of the TSPI content is often determined more by human-factors considerations than encoding-efficiency, and the end-to-end exchange is generally human-to-human and less “encoding efficient”. A wide variety of capabilities and missions may be supported by character-oriented protocols (for example: Command,  Control, and Intelligence).<br><br>
To better understand the distinction being drawn here, consider the encoding of a single spatial coordinate value. In a bit-oriented environment a coordinate value could be efficiently encoded as a double precision floating point number (8 octets). In a character-oriented environment it may instead be encoded as a series of characters that are understood to denote a series of values in the form of “DDDMMSSH” where the initial three Dee characters indicate a three digit integer number of arc-degrees, the two following Em characters indicate a two digit integer number of arc-minutes, the subsequent two Ess characters indicate a two digit integer number of arc-seconds, the final character indicates the hemisphere, and the numeric precision of the result is “to the nearest arc-second”. This character-oriented encoding is not particularly space-efficient, nor especially precise, and not directly usable in computation; however, it is in a format that is well-understood by warfighters. This format is, in effect, a “unique presentation” of the intended mathematically rigorous double precision floating point number.<br><br>
As the DoD moves towards a net-centric and data-centric paradigm many systems are being enhanced to use Extensible Markup Language (XML) as the unifying and interoperable basis for information exchange (the case of VMF-XML is an exemplar of this trend). However, each system has tended to develop a unique approach to specifying TSPI using XML – sometimes for the purposes of maximizing backwards-compatibility, and at other times in order to meet evolving data exchange objectives. Standardizing the exchange of TSPI through the promulgation of a well-documented and unambiguous XML schema would promote, and then enable, interoperability between many disparate systems in the DoD/IC. Accompanying implementation guidance would help ensure that such an XML schema was correctly and consistently employed by systems developers and operators.<br><br>
While it is desirable to simply specify a single approach to specifying each “item type” of TSPI, the reality of system acquisition and upgrade processes will result in a non-uniform rate of adoption across the DoD/IC of such a “unitary” schema. It is therefore necessary that any TSPI specification should support a graceful transition from legacy and current operational practices to the objective capability. Thus, for a specific “item type” of TSPI it may be appropriate to specify both a mandatory representation and one or more optional alternative representations for use during the period of system(s) transition. This optionality may be made conditional (or mandatory) in the context of specific community data exchanges.</p><br><br>
<b><i>1.4	TSPI-related XML-based Standards</i></b><br><br>
The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) specifications XML Schema Definition Language (XSD) 1.1 – Part 1: Structures and Part 2: Datatypes are the basis for the development of all XML schemas. While they are not “spatially aware”, they do specify a set of basic datatypes for time that are tied to International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 8601:1988 Representations of dates and times. From this common starting point different limited- or non-interoperable XML-based solutions to the TSPI exchange problem have been developed.<br><br>
<p><b>ISO 19136:2007 Geographic information – Geography Markup Language (GML)</b>  builds upon the infrastructure of XSD both a more robust XML-based model for temporal representation (and reasoning) and a new XML-based model for spatial representation. ISO 19136 draws upon the conceptual schemas of multiple related standards, specifically including ISO 19107:2003 Geographic information – Spatial schema, ISO 19108:2002 Geographic information – Temporal schema, and ISO 19111:2007, Geographic information – Spatial referencing by coordinates, resulting in an internationally recognized and commercially employed consistent XML-based encoding of these conceptual schemas.<br><br>
OGC® Geography Markup Language (GML) - Extended schemas and encoding rules, Version 3.3 (OGC 10-129r1) extends ISO 19136:2007 to specify additional geometric representations, compact geometry encodings, and enhancements in basic types and XML encoding rules.<br><br>
ISO 19112:2003 Geographic information – Spatial referencing by geographic identifiers specifies a conceptual schema for spatial references based on geographic identifiers – the relationship to a location that is determined by a geographic feature or features (for example a named country, administrative subdivision, town, property, or river basin). It establishes a general model for spatial referencing using geographic identifiers, defines the components of a spatial reference system and defines the essential components of a gazetteer (a directory of geographic identifiers describing location instances). Its conceptual schema enables consistent application of Web Feature Services (WFS) with gazetteer data, which is further elaborated by draft OGC Best Practices Document: Gazetteer Service - Application Profile of the Web Feature Service Implementation Specification, OGC 11-122r1, Version: 0.9.4.</p><br>
ISO 19136:2007, ISO 19107:2003, ISO 19108:2002, ISO 19111:2007 and ISO 19112:2003 have all been identified as mandatory standards for use is systems-acquisition in both the DoD Information Technology Standards Registry (DISR) and the Intelligence Community Standards Registry (ICSR).<br><br>
<b>ISO 6709:2008 Standard representation of geographic point location by coordinates</b> specifies the representation of coordinates, including latitude and longitude, to be used in data interchange. It additionally specifies the representation of height and depth that may be associated with horizontal coordinates. The representation of coordinates includes units of measure and coordinate order.<br><br>
ISO 6709:2008 supports point location representation using XML and, recognizing the need for compatibility with the previous version of the standard (ISO 6709:1983), it allows for the use of a single alpha-numeric string to describe point locations. In particular it allows for the use of sexagesimal notations: degrees, minutes and decimal minutes or degrees, minutes, seconds and decimal seconds. For computer data interchange of latitude and longitude coordinates, ISO 6709:2008 recommends that decimal degrees be used.<br><br>
Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC) <b>United States Thoroughfare, Landmark, and Postal Address Data Standard, FGDC-STD-016-2011</b>, February 2011, recognizes that physical addresses are the location identifiers most widely used by the public and by state and local government, being critical for emergency response, homeland security, and disaster management. In lieu of a recognized international standard for addressing , FGDC-STC-016-2011 specifies a comprehensive U.S. address data standard that meets a wide range of addressing requirements: postal delivery and census enumeration, local government administration and intergovernmental cooperation, emergency dispatch, the creation and administration of master address repositories by local address authorities, and the aggregation of local records into larger regional, state, and national address databases.<br><br>
Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) RFC 5870 – A Uniform Resource Identifier for Geographic Locations (’geo’ URI), specifies a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) for geographic locations using the ’geo’ scheme name. A ’geo’ URI identifies a physical location in a two- or three-dimensional coordinate reference system in a compact, simple, human-readable, and protocol independent way. A mechanism for Coordinate Reference System identification is specified; the default coordinate reference system used is WGS 84. Location uncertainty may be expressed, and recommendations are made for mapping ‘geo’ URIs to/from GML Point, Circle and Sphere – the latter two mappings being based on an uncertainty parameter that is present and nonzero.<br><br>
ISO 8601:2004 Data elements and interchange formats – Information interchange – Representation of dates and times specifies numeric representations of information regarding date and time of day as well as formats of these numeric representations.<br><br>
ISO 19106:2004 Geographic information – Profiles specifies two classes of conformance when developing a profile of a base standard. A Class 1 profile is a strict subset of the base standard, while a Class 2 profile includes non-conflicting extensions of the base standard.<br><br>
Numerous programs (e.g., the DoD Discovery Metadata Specification (DDMS) and the Universal Core (UCore)) have developed (generally) Class 1 Profiles of GML as part of their schema development activities. However, each has done so in a unique manner sufficient only to meet their limited program-specific objectives. The proliferation of program-specific Class 1 Profiles of GML as regards time-space-position information does not meet DoD/IC-wide net- and data-centric objectives.<br><br>
Few, if any, of these program-specific Profiles of GML include Class 2 TSPI-related extensions that are necessary to address TSPI requirements that are not directly addressed by GML itself.<br><br>
<b><i>1.5	SCOTS Software</i></b><br><br>
It is the intent of DoD/IC leadership that investments in new information technologies maximally leverage Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) capabilities whenever doing so does not adversely affect mission effectiveness. Government-unique software development should, whenever possible, be limited to government-unique functionality. When procuring, and possibly further adapting, COTS capabilities it is to the benefit of the government to procure capabilities that adhere to open standards. Procurement of standards-based COTS (SCOTS) aids in ensuring cross-program interoperability and reduces the risks associated with proprietary interfaces and concomitant vendor lock-in.<br><br>
<p>As the Functional Manager of the NSG, the Director of NGA has specified that NSG systems shall, where applicable, employ standards developed by the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) that facilitate net-centric data exchange using service-oriented interfaces. These include the Web Feature Service (WFS) and other GML-based web services. These standards have a wide (and growing) variety of SCOTS implementations. Non-NSG systems can similarly benefit from this commercial marketplace and “riding the wave” of commercial investment and technology evolution. But they can only do so if they understand and employ ISO 19136:2007 (GML) in a consistent and rigorous manner.<br><br>
<b><i>1.6	Data Mediation</i></b><br><br>
The DoD data- and net-centric tenets include the concept that data mediation may be employed to bridge between the information exchange schemas of different Communities of Interest (COI). Where both COIs share the same semantics, but differ only in the syntactic structure of their schemas it is possible to dynamically restructure instance data to facilitate cross-community information exchange.<br>
For XML-based schemas and data instances, the Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformations (XSLT) technology may be used to facilitate this data restructuring once a semantic-preserving structural mapping has been specified. Achieving the necessary semantic pre-requisite is facilitated by sharing common schema data components where those data components “mean the same thing” in both communities.<br><br>
ISO 19136:2007 (GML) specifies such a set of common data components for use in building community-specific schemas where spatiotemporal information is involved. The adoption of a common Profile of GML by multiple COIs, and then its consistent and correct employment in community-specific schemas, can facilitate TSPI interoperability despite other types of community differences. <br><br>
<b><i>1.7	Space and Place</i></b><br><br>
Spatial information includes position, extent (shape), size, orientation, and rates of change in these characteristics. Unambiguous expression of the values of these characteristics requires the identification of a robust coordinate reference system, such as those associated with the World Geodetic System 1984 (WGS 84), and the ability to specify the values of such characteristics with respect to that coordinate reference system.<br><br>
ISO 19133:2005, <i>Geographic information – Location based services tracking and navigation</i> defines <b>position</b> as “a point or geometry potentially occupied by a (spatial) object.” ISO 19107:2003, <i>Geographic information – Spatial schema</i> elaborates by stating that “A position is described by a single set of coordinates within a coordinate reference system”.<br><br>
Spatial information also includes identifiers based on geographic place-names, physical addresses, and other systems in which a spatial reference in the form of a label or code is used to identifiy a location that may then be more rigorously tied to a position with respect to a coordinate reference system.<br><br>
ISO 19112:2003, <i>Geographic information – Spatial referencing by geographic identifiers</i> defines <b>location</b> as “an identifiable geographic place.” ISO/WD 19160-1, <i>Geographic information – Addressing – Part 1: Conceptual model</i> defines a (physical) <b>address</b> as “structured information that uniquely references a (physical) object for the purpose of identification and (spatial) location.”<br><br>
ISO/CD 19155, <i>Geographic information – Place Identifier (PI) architecture</i> defines <b>place</b> as “an identifiable part of any space”, where a “place” may be located in either the real or virtual world.
In this specification, a “place” is referred to as a:<br>
<ul>
<li>	<b><i>position</b></i> when that place is identified using spatial coordinates (e.g., geodetic latitude and longitude);
<li>	<b><i>location</b></i> when that place is identified using geographic identifiers (e.g., place name); or
<li>	<b><i>address</b></i> when that place is identified using (physical ) addresses (e.g., postal address).</ul>
In all three types of “place”, a <b>spatial reference system</b> is established that (eventually) allows identification of a position in the real world.<br><br>
<ul><li>	In the case of positioning, a coordinate reference system relates the position to an established datum (e.g., one based on an ellipsoid of revolution describing the shape of the Earth).
<li>	In the case of locating, a <b>spatial reference system</b> using geographic identifiers is established that relates locations to positions. Gazetteers are then used to establish directories of (geographically) identified locations along with their corresponding positions.
<li>	In the case of addressing, a systematic mapping is established based on the structure of the addressing scheme that allows for geocoding – the process of converting addresses (e.g., "1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, CA") into positions (e.g., geodetic latitude/ longitude {37.423021 -122.083739} ).</ul>
This specification supports all three types of “place”. It does not specify mechanisms for converting among positions, locations, and addresses.<br><br>
<b><i>1.8	TSPI Capabilities</i></b><br><br>
This specification provides a “bridge” from legacy information exchanges (<i>e.g.</i>, USMTF and VMF-XML) to a well-structured, well-documented, robust XML schema for spatiotemporal data which has broad DoD/IC applicability.<br><br>
The TSPI specification is a common set of XML-based representations, being shared across many communities of interest. It is a robust mechanism for expressing “Where” and “When” in various core and extended XML-based information schemas in the DoD/IC. It addresses the specification and exchange of data regarding:<br>
<ul><li>	Earth-referenced spatial coordinate systems;
<li>	Two- and three-dimensional position in an Earth-referenced spatial coordinate system;
<li>	Geographic identifiers based on geographic place-names, physical addresses, and other systems in which a spatial reference in the form of a label or code is used to identifiy a location that may then be more rigorously tied to a position in an Earth-referenced spatial coordinate system;
<li>	Elevation, height, altitude and depth in a suitable one-dimensional “vertical” frame of reference (<i>e.g.</i>, Earth Gravitational Model 1996);
<li>	One-, two-, and three-dimensional extent (shape) in terms of a structured set of positions;
<li>	Direction (bearing) between two positions;
<li>	Dimensional measures (“size”; e.g., length, width, height, depth, radius) in a suitable frame of reference;
<li>	Rates of change in these spatial characteristics (e.g., linear speed, linear velocity, angular velocity, acceleration);
<li>	Earth-referenced temporal coordinate systems;
<li>	Position (instant) in an Earth-referenced temporal coordinate system;
<li>	Extent (duration) in an Earth-referenced temporal coordinate system;
<li>	Spatiotemporal quality assessment information to include the precision of data values as well as quantitative and qualitative estimates of the accuracy and/or uncertainty of spatial and temporal characteristics; and
<li>	“Presentation-oriented” data representations intended principally or exclusively for human-to-human communication (e.g., “DDDMMSSH” type encodings). Such data representations constitute “presentations” only in the sense that they encode a spatial position specification in a manner amenable to direct use in generating text-strings for use in human-computer interfaces.</ul>
The following topics fall outside the scope of this specification:
<ul><li>	Spatial coordinate systems that are time-varying; 
<li>	Topologic relations  between/among spatial extents (shapes);
<li>	Geocoding, coordinate conversion, datum transformation, and associated algorithms for relating spatiotemporal data specified in different spatiotemporal reference systems;
<li>	Methods for determining the precision, accuracy and/or uncertainty of spatiotemporal data;
<li>	Encodings for bit-oriented communications environments;  and
<li>	Means for asserting domain-specific semantics of entities with spatiotemporal characteristics (e.g., equipment, feature, or target types).</ul>
This specification is:
<ol><li>	An ISO 19106-conformant Class 2 Profile of ISO 19136:2007 (GML).
<li>	An ISO 19106-conformant Class 2 Profile of ISO 6709:2008.
<li>	Maximally consistent with IETF RFC 5870 – A Uniform Resource Identifier for Geographic Locations (’geo’ URI).
<li>	Designed so as to enable the use of applicable OGC Open Web Service standards with TSPI-conformant instance documents. This may, in some cases, require data mediation through the use of XSLT technology.
<li>	Designed so as to maximally enable data mediation to/with other XML-based schemas in common use in the DoD/IC that include time-space-position information, e.g., XML-MTF, VMF-XML, and XML-based encodings of the NSG Application Schema (NAS).</ol>
This specification utilizes the terminology of ISO 80000:2009 Quantities and units (multi-part).  This means that throughout this specification the standard unit of measure for length (dimension) is named “<b>metre</b>”.<br><br>
<b><i>1.9	TSPI Schema Components</i></b><br><br>
The TSPI Schema is implemented in terms of a set of data-file components that collectively are referred to throughout this specification simply as “the TSPI Schema” when greater specificity is unnecessary. These data-file components are of one of the following three types:<br>
<ul><li>	XML Schema documents (XSD): These specify authoritative XML Schema components that are either:
<ul><li>	imported from other XML namespaces, or 
<li>	define the TSPI XML namespaces (‘tspi-core’, ‘tspi-ext’, and ‘tspi’).</ul>
<li>	ISO/IEC 19757:2006 Schematron (SCH) documents: These specify authoritative constraints applied to XML Schema components that are either:
<ul><li>	imported from other XML namespaces, or
<li>	define the TSPI XML namespaces (‘tspi-core’, ‘tspi-ext’, and ‘tspi’).</ul>
<li>	XML instance documents: These either specify:
<ul><li>	authoritative GML-based CodeList Dictionaries that are used by various XML Schema components and associated Schematron assertions, or
<li>	informative examples of the use of TSPI Schema components in XML-based information exchange.</ul></ul><br><br>
Almost all of these data-files depend on the the TSPI XML Namespace(s); Annex A.4 specifies how those namespaces relate to the DoD Data Services Environment (DSE) Metadata Registry (MDR) and the information resources that are published there.<br><br>
The three TSPI-associated XML namespaces are as follows:<br>
<ul><li>	‘<b>tspi-core</b>’: Specifies core XML type components that shall always be used as specified without further restriction unless documented by, and accomplished using, Schematron assertions.
<li>	‘<b>tspi-ext</b>’: TSPI-conformant registered extensions that specify additional representations for spatial position, geographic location, and/or physical address. It is populated with initial high-value extensions, but is dynamically maintained on the MDR. Its use is conditional on the requirements of a given system/application and its accompanying business requirements.
<li>	‘<b>tspi</b>’: XML elements and non-core types with less strict reuse rules than ‘<b>tspi-core</b>’; it imports the schemas of the ‘<b>tspi-core</b>’and ‘<b>tspi-ext</b>’ namespaces.<br>
This TSPI specification defines XML Schema components in all three of these XML namespaces, as well as related Schematron assertions and GML dictionaries upon which those components depend.</ul><br>
When any of these three XML namespaces are referenced from other schemas then the single valid schemaLocation for the <import> is that established in the MDR. For the current TSPI release these are, respectively:<br>
<ul><li>	‘<b>tspi-core</b>’: http://metadata.ces.mil/mdr/ns/GSIP/tspi/2.0.0/tspi-core.xsd
<li>	‘<b>tspi-ext</b>’: http://metadata.ces.mil/mdr/ns/GSIP/tspi/2.0.0/tspi-ext.xsd
<li>	‘<b>tspi</b>’: http://metadata.ces.mil/mdr/ns/GSIP/tspi/2.0.0/tspi.xsd </ul><br>
Schema component files (XSD, SCH, XML) may be copied to other locations for development and/or efficiency purposes, however any alteration or substitution violates TSPI conformance requirements (see Annex B).<br><br>
<b><i>1.10	Specification Overview</i></b><br><br>
This specification is organized into seven primary sections followed by a series of Annexes, some of which are informative in nature (and so marked).<br><br>
Section 2 specifies conformance requirements.<br><br>
Section 3 specifies the normative and informative references used in this specification. Normative references are necessary for the complete understanding of this specification. Informative references are not essential but provide supplementary material from which the user of this specification may benefit.<br><br>
Section 4 specifies the terms, definitions and acronyms used in this specification.<br><br>
Section 5 specifies the mechanisms established by this specification for representing spatial position. It also specifies mechanisms for extending TSPI (and GML) with additional representations for spatial position and includes initial high-value extensions.<br><br>
Section 6 specifies the mechanisms established by this specification for representing spatial location using geographic identifiers (e.g., place names). It also specifies mechanisms for extending TSPI with additional representations for spatial location and includes initial high-value extensions.<br><br>
Section 7 specifies the mechanisms established by this specification for representing (physical) address (e.g., postal address).<br><br>
Section 8 specifies the mechanisms established by this specification for representing temporal position.<br><br>
Annex A (normative) establishes a set of conventions used throughout this specification. These include naming and design rules, the referencing of various schemas, the establishment and use of information resources (e.g., coordinate reference systems, code lists, and units of measure) in support of this specification, the use of ISO/IEC 19757:2006 Schematron in validating XML instance documents, and issues in conformance and reuse of this specification.<br><br>
Annex B (normative) establishes a conformance test suite.<br><br>
Annex C (informative) identifies a set of Geodetic 2D coordinate reference systems that are registered in the GSIP Governance Namespace of the DoD Data Services Environment (DSE) Metadata Registry (MDR) that may be used with this specification.<br><br>
Annex D (informative) explains the principal structuring concepts used by GML: Profiles and Application Schemas.<br><br>
Annex E (informative) describes the procedures to be followed when extending the TSPI through a process of registering new XML components, code lists, and codes, to include Coordinate Reference Systems, Physical Quantities, Units of Measure, and Data Quality Measures.<br><br>

